README.md, before:

# DocTR Process

This project unifies the previous DocTR_Mod and TicketSorter5 utilities into a single package for processing truck ticket PDFs.  
The source code now lives under `src/doctr_process` and provides OCR extraction, preflight checks and multiple output handlers.

## Usage

1. Install dependencies using the provided `environment.yml` or `pip install -r src/doctr_process/doctr_mod/requirements.txt`.
2. Configure options in `src/doctr_process/doctr_mod/config.yaml` or `configf.yaml` at the repository root.
3. Run the main pipeline:

 ```bash
 python src/doctr_process/doctr_mod/doctr_ocr_to_csv.py
 ```

Sample ticket images can be found under `docs/samples` for testing the OCR models.

The generated `summary.csv` now includes per-file vendor counts appended below
the overall totals. Each row lists the PDF filename, vendor name and the number
of pages matched for that vendor.

When `draw_roi` is enabled in the configuration the pipeline now saves ROI
highlighted images alongside the normal page images. Setting
`save_corrected_pdf: true` creates an orientation-corrected PDF containing the
processed pages at the path given by `corrected_pdf_path`.

Additional enhancements include optional cropped field images and thumbnails,
detailed issue and timing logs, and automatic zipping of valid pages. The
pipeline now reads SharePoint credentials from the `SHAREPOINT_USERNAME` and
`SHAREPOINT_PASSWORD` environment variables and uses rotating JSON logs to keep
`error.log` manageable.

Commit message:

Save ROI crops for all fields

README.md, after:

# DocTR Process

This project unifies the previous DocTR_Mod and TicketSorter5 utilities into a single package for processing truck ticket PDFs.  
The source code now lives under `src/doctr_process` and provides OCR extraction, preflight checks and multiple output handlers.

## Usage

1. Install dependencies using the provided `environment.yml` or `pip install -r src/doctr_process/doctr_mod/requirements.txt`.
2. Configure options in `src/doctr_process/doctr_mod/config.yaml` or `configf.yaml` at the repository root.
3. Run the main pipeline:

 ```bash
 python src/doctr_process/doctr_mod/doctr_ocr_to_csv.py
 ```

Sample ticket images can be found under `docs/samples` for testing the OCR models.

The generated `summary.csv` now includes per-file vendor counts appended below
the overall totals. Each row lists the PDF filename, vendor name and the number
of pages matched for that vendor.

When `draw_roi` is enabled in the configuration the pipeline now saves small
JPEG crops for the ticket number, manifest number and every other field defined
in the extraction rules. Each crop is stored under `images/<FieldName>` and
filenames end with `TicketNum`, `Manifest` or the field name instead of the
previous `_roi` suffix. Setting `save_corrected_pdf: true` creates an
orientation-corrected PDF containing the processed pages at the path given by
`corrected_pdf_path`.

Additional enhancements include optional cropped field images and thumbnails,
detailed issue and timing logs, and automatic zipping of valid pages. The
pipeline now reads SharePoint credentials from the `SHAREPOINT_USERNAME` and
`SHAREPOINT_PASSWORD` environment variables and uses rotating JSON logs to keep
`error.log` manageable.
