doctr_mod/docs/USER_GUIDE.md, before:

# Doctr OCR to CSV - User Guide

## Introduction

Doctr OCR to CSV is a Python tool for batch-processing scanned truck ticket PDFs.  
It extracts vendor, ticket, manifest, and other key fields using configurable YAML/CSV rules, and outputs user-friendly
CSV reports.

---

## Prerequisites

- **Python**: 3.8+ (recommended 3.10+)
- **System Tools
  **: [Tesseract OCR](https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract), [Poppler](http://blog.alivate.com.au/poppler-windows/) (
  Windows: add Poppler's `bin` to your PATH)
- **Python Packages**:

---

## Quick Start

1. Place your PDFs in a directory, or specify a file.
2. Prepare these config files in your project folder:

- `ocr_keywords.csv`
- `extraction_rules.yaml`
- `config.yaml`

3. Run:

- Answer the prompt for `[F]ile` or `[D]irectory`.

---

## Configuration Files

### `ocr_keywords.csv`

| vendor_name | vendor_type | vendor_match     | vendor_excludes |
|-------------|-------------|------------------|-----------------|
| Waste Mgmt  | landfill    | wm, waste        |                 |
| NTX         | landfill    | ntx, north texas |                 |

- **vendor_match**: Comma-separated keywords (case-insensitive)
- **vendor_excludes**: Comma-separated terms to avoid false matches

---

### `extraction_rules.yaml`

YAML defining per-vendor extraction logic for fields:

```yaml
Waste Mgmt:
ticket_number:
 method: roi
 roi: [0.2, 0.7, 0.4, 0.8]
 regex: '\d{5,}'
manifest_number:
 method: label_right
 label: 'Manifest'
 regex: '14\d{6,}'
# ...other fields...
DEFAULT:
ticket_number: {...}
manifest_number: {...}


### `config.yaml`

input_pdf: ./data/sample.pdf
input_dir: ./data/
batch_mode: true
output_csv: ./output/ocr/all_results.csv
ticket_numbers_csv: ./output/ocr/combined_ticket_numbers.csv
page_fields_csv: ./output/ocr/page_fields.csv
output_images_dir: ./output/images/
draw_roi: true
orientation_check: tesseract  # tesseract, doctr, or none
pdf_scale: 1.0  # scale vendor PDF pages (1.0 = original)
pdf_resolution: 150  # DPI for vendor PDFs
save_corrected_pdf: true
corrected_pdf_path: ./output/ocr/corrected.pdf
parallel: true
num_workers: 4
debug: false
profile: false

When `profile` is set to `true`, the program displays progress bars and
records timing information for each file in `performance_log.csv`.

`orientation_check` determines how page rotation is handled:
- `tesseract` (default): use Tesseract's OSD to correct orientation
- `doctr`: use Doctr's angle prediction model
- `none`: skip orientation checks

`pdf_scale` allows shrinking vendor PDF pages before saving. `pdf_resolution`
sets the DPI of the saved PDF.

### Output Files

- `combined_results.csv` – raw OCR results for every page
- `combined_ticket_numbers.csv` – one row per page with a `duplicate_ticket` flag and
  **ROI Image Link** and **Manifest ROI Link** columns when the respective values are not `valid`
- `page_fields.csv` – per-page summary of all extracted fields with validation status
- `ticket_number_exceptions.csv` – pages with no ticket number
- `duplicate_ticket_exceptions.csv` – pages where the same vendor and ticket number combination appears more than once ("duplicate ticket pages") and any pages that produced no OCR text
- `manifest_number_exceptions.csv` – pages where the manifest number is missing or invalid

## Automated Scanning Workflow

The repository includes a helper script that can scan a ticket and
immediately feed the resulting PDF into the OCR pipeline. This is
useful for connecting a physical scanner or a Power Automate flow.

Run the script with an output directory:

```bash
python ticket_scan_input/automation/scan_and_process.py --output-dir scanned_tickets
```

It expects `doctr_ocr_to_csv.py` to be in the repository root. If the
script lives elsewhere, specify the path with `--doctr-path`. Scanner
options such as the profile and image enhancement settings are defined
in `ticket_scan_input/automation/config.yaml`.

Commit message:

Use output_dir as base for reports

doctr_mod/docs/USER_GUIDE.md, after:

# Doctr OCR to CSV - User Guide

## Introduction

Doctr OCR to CSV is a Python tool for batch-processing scanned truck ticket PDFs.  
It extracts vendor, ticket, manifest, and other key fields using configurable YAML/CSV rules, and outputs user-friendly
CSV reports.

---

## Prerequisites

- **Python**: 3.8+ (recommended 3.10+)
- **System Tools
  **: [Tesseract OCR](https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract), [Poppler](http://blog.alivate.com.au/poppler-windows/) (
  Windows: add Poppler's `bin` to your PATH)
- **Python Packages**:

---

## Quick Start

1. Place your PDFs in a directory, or specify a file.
2. Prepare these config files in your project folder:

- `ocr_keywords.csv`
- `extraction_rules.yaml`
- `config.yaml`

3. Run:

- Answer the prompt for `[F]ile` or `[D]irectory`.

---

## Configuration Files

### `ocr_keywords.csv`

| vendor_name | vendor_type | vendor_match     | vendor_excludes |
|-------------|-------------|------------------|-----------------|
| Waste Mgmt  | landfill    | wm, waste        |                 |
| NTX         | landfill    | ntx, north texas |                 |

- **vendor_match**: Comma-separated keywords (case-insensitive)
- **vendor_excludes**: Comma-separated terms to avoid false matches

---

### `extraction_rules.yaml`

YAML defining per-vendor extraction logic for fields:

```yaml
Waste Mgmt:
ticket_number:
 method: roi
 roi: [0.2, 0.7, 0.4, 0.8]
 regex: '\d{5,}'
manifest_number:
 method: label_right
 label: 'Manifest'
 regex: '14\d{6,}'
# ...other fields...
DEFAULT:
ticket_number: {...}
manifest_number: {...}


### `config.yaml`

input_pdf: ./data/sample.pdf
input_dir: ./data/
batch_mode: true
output_csv: true
ticket_numbers_csv: true
page_fields_csv: true
ticket_number_exceptions_csv: true
manifest_number_exceptions_csv: true
summary_report: true
output_images_dir: ./output/images/
draw_roi: true
orientation_check: tesseract  # tesseract, doctr, or none
pdf_scale: 1.0  # scale vendor PDF pages (1.0 = original)
pdf_resolution: 150  # DPI for vendor PDFs
save_corrected_pdf: true
corrected_pdf_path: ./output/ocr/corrected.pdf
parallel: true
num_workers: 4
debug: false
profile: false

Each `*_csv` option above controls whether that report is generated. When set to
`true`, the file is written under `<output_dir>/logs/`.

When `profile` is set to `true`, the program displays progress bars and
records timing information for each file in `performance_log.csv`.

`orientation_check` determines how page rotation is handled:
- `tesseract` (default): use Tesseract's OSD to correct orientation
- `doctr`: use Doctr's angle prediction model
- `none`: skip orientation checks

`pdf_scale` allows shrinking vendor PDF pages before saving. `pdf_resolution`
sets the DPI of the saved PDF.

### Output Files

- The application writes reports under `<output_dir>/logs/` when enabled:
  - `ocr/combined_results.csv` – raw OCR results for every page
  - `ocr/combined_ticket_numbers.csv` – one row per page with a `duplicate_ticket` flag and
    **ROI Image Link** and **Manifest ROI Link** columns when the respective values are not `valid`
  - `ocr/page_fields.csv` – per-page summary of all extracted fields with validation status
  - `ticket_number/ticket_number_exceptions.csv` – pages with no ticket number
  - `manifest_number/manifest_number_exceptions.csv` – pages where the manifest number is missing or invalid
  - `summary/summary.csv` – aggregated counts of valid, review, and invalid pages

## Automated Scanning Workflow

The repository includes a helper script that can scan a ticket and
immediately feed the resulting PDF into the OCR pipeline. This is
useful for connecting a physical scanner or a Power Automate flow.

Run the script with an output directory:

```bash
python ticket_scan_input/automation/scan_and_process.py --output-dir scanned_tickets
```

It expects `doctr_ocr_to_csv.py` to be in the repository root. If the
script lives elsewhere, specify the path with `--doctr-path`. Scanner
options such as the profile and image enhancement settings are defined
in `ticket_scan_input/automation/config.yaml`.
